Add FAQ, workaround tip, and back-compat for updates_on (#9291)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/dbt-state-migration.md

</File>

## Known differences from state-aware orchestration   

If you notice more models rebuilding than expected after migrating, these are the most common causes:

- **Views with `select *`**: dbt State can’t determine what columns `select *` resolves to without querying the upstream schema, so it always rebuilds these views rather than risk reusing a stale result.

> - **Non-deterministic SQL**: Macros like `dbt_utils.get_relations_by_pattern` with `dbt_utils.union_relations` can return relations in a different order each run, producing different compiled SQL every time. dbt State sees a new hash and rebuilds; if the affected model has downstream dependencies, those models rebuild, too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Non-determinism in Jinja-templated SQL**: Macros like `dbt_utils.get_relations_by_pattern` with `dbt_utils.union_relations` can return relations in a different order each run, producing different compiled SQL every time. dbt State sees a new hash and rebuilds; if the affected model has downstream dependencies, those models rebuild, too.
```
Let's distinguish nondeterministic Jinja (this) from nondeterministic SQL (State handles via [`evaluate_volatile_sql` config](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/evaluate-volatile-sql))

> - **`build_after` vs `lag_tolerance`**: State-aware orchestration’s `build_after` skipped rebuilds entirely within the configured time window, even if the SQL changed. dbt State _always_ rebuilds when it detects a SQL change, regardless of the value set in `lag_tolerance`.

Reviewer: Let's expand this to explain how `freshness.build_after` in SAO and `state.lag_tolerance` are **semantically different**

The customer goal is similar - "I do not want to run this model more than once per day, even if fresh data is available from upstream sources more frequently"

`freshness.build_after: {count: 4, period: hour}` says - don't run this model unless it's been at least 4 hours (AND there is fresher-than-last-run source data in any/all upstreams) - regardless of whether the model logic has updated in the meantime

whereas `state.lag_tolerance: 4h` says - if there isn't at least a 4 hour delta between the last data watermark in this model, and the max data watermark in upstreams, don't run this model. But if there has been a logic change, run the model immediately.

</File>

## Known differences from state-aware orchestration

dbt State behaves differently from state-aware orchestration in a few ways:

- **More models rebuilding than expected**: If you notice more rebuilds after migrating, the most common causes are:
  - **Views with `select *`**: dbt State can’t determine what columns `select *` resolves to without querying the upstream schema, so it always rebuilds these views rather than risk reusing a stale result.
  - **Non-determinism in Jinja-templated SQL**: Macros like `dbt_utils.get_relations_by_pattern` with `dbt_utils.union_relations` can return relations in a different order each run, producing different compiled SQL every time. dbt State sees a new hash and rebuilds; if the affected model has downstream dependencies, those models rebuild, too.

>   See [Why is my model being rebuilt instead of reused?](/faqs/State/views-rebuilt) for details on each cause and how to diagnose them.

Author: ```suggestion
  Refer to [Why is my model being rebuilt instead of reused?](/faqs/State/views-rebuilt) for details on each cause and how to diagnose them.
```
